Some of the brothers. Then came what? Supantels a complicated treasury of the Dzongchen.
Dzongchen. Then that is a sharp radial of the awareness tantra. So that is the value of what the
teaching came.
Now we talk about this again. As I said, this title, not just only this, in the Buddha teaching,
always in the teachings, say that title really captures or explains the essence of the teachings,
conjures the meaning of the entire teaching. So this book or this teaching,
"Sherik Dorje Nompo" in Tibetan and English, I think "Sharp radial awareness" is this title.
That is what sharp radial awareness is now. And the fourth one is, if I talk this way,
of course you can look to the other commentaries too. But I have to explain this way.
Fourth group is, first group that means the primordial experience of Samyant Badala is essence
of the tokyo teachings, cutting thorny tokyo teachings. And the second group,
the subcontinent and complicated treasure is togyo teachings, togyo teaching explaining.
So that means this book is explaining of the tokyo practices and togyo practices, togyo practices.
And so the fourth is the tokyo. Tokyo is by this of course, this is also teaching, this tokyo and
toga are the essence teachings of the magadhi, big instructions. As I mentioned yesterday,
and I'm sure you heard that from other great masters, is essence, essence of teachings of the
magadhi. And this tokyo is about cutting tornals or cutting instantly, everything.
Told means everything. So that means what? Cutting instantly, thoroughly all the dualities,
instantly. Not cultivating the time or sometimes, no? They're instantly cutting the dualities.
Duality is what? Grasping and clinging to the subject and object.
And as well as ignorance. And then it will be a little bit divided, a little bit more larger,
detailed than grasping such as salt and others. Grasping to our poems, our speech, our voice,
our mind, the way we think, all that. We grasp it, we cling. Those are graspings. Then with that,
we've fabricated more graspings, those tools. Those are known as the emotions. All the emotions,
they are grasping, they are clinging, they are holding. Holding. So those are the grasping,
the instantly cutting part of that. So that means tsukyu technique. When we apply
that tsukyu tea practices, that instantly cutting all the conceptions, all the thoughts,
and all the trace of that code are completely cut. Cut that without cutting and cut.
Instantly cutting. Cut it. That is what is called tsukyu, the main word, tsukyu. Instantly cutting.
And what that cut is, very cut. It's cut to the pure state, kada here. In its very word, kada.
Pre-modial pure. Pre-modial pure stated cut. So that pure stated cut does all the duality
fabrications, unnecessary things. All that which bother us so many lifetime, now instantly cut
that in the purity, pre-modial status. Few, the pre-modial pure expenses. That we really cut it.
And what that is, that is named as samanabhadari in the doki teacher. Samanabhadari. Samanabhadari
is
samanabhadara and samanabhadari, true. And those are generally ordinary Buddha. What is really
did actually, according to teaching, is the same. There's no really big difference. And when you
say
samanabhadara and samanabhadari, samanabhadari is slightly different is. Samanabhadari is barely,
it can be literally emphasized on the display of the energy or the clarity aspect of nature.
When you say samanabhadari is slightly emphasizing on the emptiness, openness of the nature,
reality, both are in, both are same state. And that's why both also in union state, we made
illustrations. They are union states. This union indicating the emptiness and appearance or
emptiness
and the clarity is are in union states. Also this samanabhadara or this pure, pure from the
beginning
over the thousand here, uh, pre-modulative expenses. It's another name is also pandyaparamata.
Or samanabhadari is another name is a pandyaparamata. How is that pandyaparamata?
Again, on illustration level, I'm sure you saw those, uh, mother pandyaparamata. But
absolute mother pandyaparamata, which is known as mother of the old four children,
mother of the old four children, great mother, which is mother of the four groups of children.
What are those four children? Children of the ahadas, children of the fighting buddhas,
children of the bodhisattvas and children of the buddhas. All these children's born
because of the mother pandyaparamata. Therefore, it's metaphor. It's mother. Because with all this,
there is no ahada, there is no particular buddha, no bodhisattva and no buddhas. Because of this,
you, then you must, we can, each of us, we can born, take the bird in our potential,
in our state. Therefore, this is known as great mother. How that great mother is,
that is, we joined in the heart of the beginning. It's called praise by the
rahula to the mother from the parliament. Great rahula says. And some say it is the rahula of the
buddha's son. And some say it is the famous master, known as rahula, which is also another name,
many masters say, is Sara, saying, he prays, what's it, unborn, unceasing, natural in the sky.
Inexpressible, not yummy, inexpressible, not yummy. Inexpressible and the pandyaparamata,
unborn, unceasing, natural, like the sky or sky, sky, sky only discovered by the discrimination
earnest cognitions. I'm roughly translated, you know better than me. That is the mother.
This is the mother summon the buddha. That is, when we abide in that, that is also looking to
true, to true teaching. And for this, according to the teaching, according to the teaching of the
great masters, such as, I mean, all the masters, also very highlighted by the great master,
Master Manjushri Mahamrammaji, in his teaching said what?
In India, Ajayya Chandrkarthi, Chandrkarthi, in Tibet, great master Rongzom Pa, both
established, perfect philosophy of the great emptiness view from the beginning.
So, according to the teaching, the true aspect of the teaching, of this emptiness aspect of
teaching,
in the Mademaka Upadhyaparamata, the teaching is the same. There is no difference. In that level,
all the Mademaka Upadhyaparamata, and as well as the Mahamudra, and as well as two practices,
all the Shivji practices, and sajyabha school, great sajyabha school, the Lambri practice,
those all in line are the same thing, according to the teaching, according to the great masters.
Even though there's a lot of different techniques and skills and methods to approach that, but
the reality is the goal is the same, according to the teaching. So, this is what this nature is.
This is some of the body, some of the body is still. So, that is kadak trikyu, still an
unborn, unselfish, all that. Really, this is what. So, this is the essence of the trikyu teaching
that,
explaining this. And then, next one is londok zoka kimidu in a debate, and then it's got
sub-continuous, ekamplicate, ekamplicate, and trejung, trejung of zokchins. That is, this
sub-continuous, ekamplicate trejung is the toggle practices, essence, condensed meaning of the
toggle practices. Why that means? What that means? Because this emptiness, what we're discussing,
the true, the pure from the beginning, this primordial pure expenses, is not hallowed,
is not blamed, is not negation status,
that we heard so many times, and I'm repeating that again in 32. It's not negation, it's really
a golden teaching. Teaching, and every teaching is not negation, it's openness, it's a pervasive,
infinite, and it's just pervasive. That pervasive, infinite, infinite,
completely pervasive, equally the qualities and the clarity of the richness,
sense is so pervasive, there's no end, no center, it's beyond that.
What the great, in the teachings, the great master Nagarjana said,
with the doing, they don't have any boundary, how you can say this is a center, there's no center,
center. That's a pervasive. That pervasive, that infinite, that vastness is completely,
completely pervaded by the qualities or clarity. What that can call it, clarity, is those are
known as quality of the enlightenment, quality of Buddha. So that means pure from beginning,
the pervasive beauty state is already enlightened, and Buddha is right with us,
with us, for that reason, you know.
He said, every living beings are Buddha, but they don't see,
because due to the mishandled of the duality, carbon, otherwise the Buddha.
So this nature, our own nature of the mind, is pervasive, infinite.
Therefore, when we look to our mind, do we find any center of the mind?
Do we find any edge of the mind? Anything, no. That's called inner space, sometimes in teaching
name. It's really, it's totally the vastness state. But that vastness is completely pervaded
with the qualities or the richness. What that richness, those are in the Buddha teaching,
he said, all the qualities of the enlightenment, chaos in the wisdom,
chaos in the wisdom, and all the death, the inconceivable richness of the enlightenment.
Those are many times in the meditation or in the teaching name, luxurious of the Sambokayas.
So it's luxurious, no power it is, no short it is, no something is missing, it's pervasive.
And how that came, how that richness came,